---
consolidation_pause:
date: 2021-11-14
tags: Fail, Win, Challenges, Implications, Feedback, Changes
---

# Introduction 
_This consolidation document will cover my fails, wins, challenges, and responses relevant to materials for weeks 5,6 and 7. The document will conclude with how I plan to move forward into the next section of material based on the feedback I have received and my own self reflection._

## Fail
- The biggest "Fail" that stood out to me was my inability to truly grasp the nuts and bolts work using "R" in week 5.  I felt I connected very well with the readings about diversity and the recording of data, however when It came to manipulating data in "R" I felt as though I was in over my head. I was able to follow the steps word for word, and I can appreciate how statistical analysis may reveal trends in the data. I discussed this in my week 6 log when I speculated about what relationships we might find in the context of the graveyard project. I asked questions like, "Maybe there would be patterns in the words used by date? or maybe even something more obscure like correlations between different fonts and the gravestone material." Although I understand the value of statistical analysis tools like "R", I still struggled with the application portion of the exercise. At one point during the exercise, I received the following error code: 

_Error in (function (classes, fdef, mtable)  : 
  unable to find an inherited method for function ‘Summary’ for signature ‘"data.frame"_
  
  - I consider this a "Fail" because by reading this error code, I STILL have no idea where I went wrong or where to begin looking. My level of understanding of "R" is not developed enough to understand what "R" was trying to tell me. I did some googling, and found others who had similar problems (Ex. https://stackoverflow.com/questions/36943201/what-does-this-mean-unable-to-find-an-inherited-method-for-function-a-for-sig) however even these resources were beyond my understanding. The next appropriate step (Had I been completing the exercise at a reasonable time) would be to reach out to my peers on discord. Although I did not reach out to the discord group to resolve this error, I did reference the discord server to resolve the [semi-colons as field delimiter error](https://discordapp.com/channels/739577555325157407/869970554948579359/898686723515641916) 
  - Despite not using discord, I was still able to reflect on this "Fail" while reading  "Living a Semi-digital Kinda Life" by Morag M. Kersel. The following quote resonated with me in the context of my "Fail" with "R"
   _I was not “born digital,” nor have I have been transformed into a  
completely digital being, but when the editors asked me to respond to  
the various papers from the National Endowment for the Humanities  
(NEH) funded workshop, I began to reflect on what it means to “live a  
digital life” vis-à-vis my own field projects._

- Another student wrote an [annotation](https://hyp.is/1eAYlCILEeuZbetHVHQDZA/digitalpressatund.files.wordpress.com/2016/09/5_1_kersel.pdf) on hypothes.is that also resonated with my "Fail". To me, using "R" was just like that student trying to write an essay with Microsoft word. Although I felt "R" was well beyond my technical ability right now, with time and patience it could eventually be added to my digital toolkit. 
  
## Win

- In week 7 we learned about agent based models. I was able to follow the ABMA_Chapter_1 exercise and generate a model with turtles that moved, reproduced and migrated on a world map.  The exercise asked us to read through the "pseudocode" and ensure we understood the abbreviations and how they were defined. I focused on this as I did the exercise, reading each line of code and attempting to translate it to non "pseudocode".  Take for example the following block of "pseudocode"

_At each timestep, T,For each agent, A,Draw random number, N, between 0-1If N < popG ANDIf there is at least one adjacent cell, C,(x±1, y±1) that is emptyCreate new agent, B,Place B on cell C_
- I read this block, and repeated it out loud as:
	- At each time step (as time passes), draw a random number between 0-1 (defined as N) for each agent (A). If N is less than population growth (Defined as popG, we set its value) AND if there is at least one vacant adjacent cell then create a new agent (B) and place it on the vacant cell (C)
- This was challenging at times, as I am not used to reading "pseudocode" or even regular code. The chapter itself was very helpful in explaining the meaning of the "pseudocode" but I challenged myself to try and decipher it myself before reading the textbooks explanation. If I still felt lost, I attempted explaining it to my Fiance which allowed me to consolidate what I understood about the problem with what I needed help defining/understanding. 
## Challenges
- _Week 6: I found it hard to read and interpret the graphs since I have little to no experience in statistical analysis. This meant I had to take extra time to stop what I was doing and retrace my thoughts and verify I was interpreting what I was seeing correctly_
- _Week 7: Getting a grasp on the terminology and logic of coding took some time to wrap my head around_
- In Week 5, we were asked to modify our recording framework to make it better suited to the project. I found it challenging to decide how specific or open a framework should be. Should the recording options be very open and imprecise to be flexible, and therefore more "true" to the subject being recorded? Ideally this could be the case, however the more "open" the system is the more challenging the data is to work with. If I define gravestone "A" as being made of "Dark-stone" and someone else describes it as "Granite" there is now a discrepancy between the two interpretations of the stones material. So if our goal is to conduct analysis, should all options be standardized to eliminate any ambiguity in interpretation at all? Well.. no. Using the framework we were provided for our project, I often had situations where my subject grave did not fit neatly into a defined category (such as the shape of the gravestones). The solution for this? lump it in with the closest resembling category. This is arguably just as, or more, misrepresentative of the original subject as leaving the framework open-ended. 
## Implications?
- Given the challenge I mentioned regarding week 5, what are the implications for this dilemma? I would argue that these problems require new ways of thinking. Instead of trying to strike a perfect balance of open-ended and defined questions, what if we change the recording method? I chose a specific parameter that I found particularly challenging to record with our existing framework, the shape of gravestones. I proposed that instead of having a bank of example shapes that the recorder must match their subject to, we could trace the shape of the stone itself. My [example](obsidian://open?vault=obsidian-digiarch-lab-notebook-main&file=Consolidation%20Docs%2FConsolidation%20Doc%202%2FRelevant%20Materials%20Doc%202%2FEdited%20Gravestone%20Ex.%201.jpg) shows what his may look like, with the red lines representing the shape of the stone and the green lines representing the shape of the text box. By defining these shapes visually instead of using a code, the data is more "true" to the subjects shape. This also allows for new kinds of visual analysis, such as layering the outlines of many stones to identify patterns (Ex. Older stones may visually be tall and rectangular, whereas newer stones may be shorter or have larger variance in their shape)
	- This also speaks to another implication of Digital Archaeology, challenging "traditional" methods. If our goal as archaeologists is to better understand the past, the accuracy of the information we collect and analyze is critical. Therefore, if there recording methods that allow us to record data that is more *true* to our subject, or analyze our data differently, we should embrace these methods. As annotated [here](https://hyp.is/K-QE5POLEeq_5suM9daqnw/digitalpressatund.files.wordpress.com/2016/09/5_1_kersel.pdf), there is a tension between using digital tools and "traditional" hands on archaeology. In my opinion, the more tools we have at our disposal the better equipped we are to record in a way that remains genuine to the subject of our recording.

## Previous Feedback

- Week 7: "Do you see any points of connection between what the exercises were trying to achieve, and the issues raised in these readings?"
	- The following quote from *Avatars, Monsters, and Machines: A Cyborg Archaeology* by Colleen Morgan resonated with me:
	_Successful ventures into cyborg interpretation should not be a seamless, transhuman integration of machine and body to transmit ideas about the past, but should invoke a monstrous disruption, interfering with both our understanding of the past and current sense of self._
	Using agent based models to "simulate" or model the past is absolutely a monstrous disruption of our understanding of the past and present. As Dr. Graham has said in the week 5 general feedback, "The past doesn’t exist: there’s only those things we find in the here-and-now, so what gets counted…. counts." So if the past doesn't exist, then is a carefully defined agent based model of the past just as or more valid than the historical narrative stitched together by historians and archaeologists based on the evidence available to them?
- In the first consolidation document I set a goal and was encouraged to embrace the collaborative aspect of our work. Though I had trouble keeping to a consistent schedule and making use of discord, I did use annotations from my peers to enhance my perspective on the material
	- For example, [this](https://hyp.is/K-QE5POLEeq_5suM9daqnw/digitalpressatund.files.wordpress.com/2016/09/5_1_kersel.pdf) annotation also resonated with how we use topic models. As Mahanoor Riaz mentions, it is always helpful to have more tools to analyze a dataset. Topic models allow us to break up and view the data in a way we have not seen it before, which can provide new insights. 
	- Another example of my use of annotations was when I tried to spark some friendly debate about the ownership of artifacts:https://hyp.is/9HtFxDCPEeyXuS8rVyewhg/www.sapiens.org/archaeology/archaeology-diversity/ (My Pseudonym is saltypasta)

## Changes I'm making moving forward
- Try *again* to reach out on discord more. I was successful in using hypothes.is more, and referencing discord, but I would like to see myself reach out with a problem at least once or twice for the next module. 
- Explaining what I was doing to my Fiance was a great way to test my comprehension of the material. Initially her eyes glazed over, but once she saw the turtles moving in week 7 her interest was piqued. She also had some great questions about how things worked (Like the turtles moving, I broke down the pseudo code that defined their movement) or why these things were useful (I explained how agent based models could test a hypothesis about human migration patterns). If shes up for it, Id like to give her a verbal mini-consolidation of my weekly work. And if shes not up for it, maybe my 14 month old will be. And if he's not up for it, my dog should listen. If all else fails, I do have fish...